Source: https://www.achaea.com/game-help/?what=healing-and-curing
Fetched: 2026-09-28 from the website copy of the in-game help. Body below is verbatim.

13.7 HEALING AND CURING
(For the Priestly skill: HELP HEALING)
(For Achaea's in-built healing system: HELP CURINGSYSTEM)

Healing in Achaea may be accomplished in a number of ways, dependent upon your
resources and what it is you wish to heal or cure.

Sleeping and Meditating
-----------------------
Healing of health and endurance may be accomplished by sleeping, while mana and
willpower may be healed via meditation. SLEEP will put you to sleep, WAKE will
wake you up, MEDITATE will cause you to meditate and any command will cause you
to cease meditating. These are the most basic methods of healing, but they are
not really sufficient for an experienced adventurer, as they are slow and
require that you do not do anything else while performing them.

The other ways of healing are legion. They include abilities in various skills,
salves, elixirs, plants, and smoking. Nothing need be said here about the
abilities, as suitable help may be found on those within the skills. However,
the other methods need some explanation.

Elixirs
-------
Elixirs are fluids that may restore health and mana, cure afflictions, or set
up various defences. They come in the various types of vials found throughout
the land, and when full, can be used many times before running out.

You may refer to elixirs by the vial they are in. For example, if you were
holding mahogany vial111, you would DRINK 111. Or, as is generally
more convenient, you may DRINK <fluid name> to drink from the first vial in
your inventory containing that type of fluid. For example: DRINK HEALTH.

You may purchase elixirs from marketplaces around Achaea. Elixirs may also be obtained from anyone with the Remedies tradeskill (TRADEWHO REMEDIES), or
from the helpful denizen Seasone (see HELP SEASONE).

To determine the contents of a vial, use the PROBE command: PROBE <vial #>.
(Or the shortcut for PROBE: P <vial #>.) There is also an ability called
ELIXLIST in the Vision skill, which will list the contents of every single vial
you are holding, all at once.

Salves
------
Like elixirs, salves are also fluids that are stored in vials, though they are
thicker and are able to be spread on your body.

To use a salve APPLY <vial# or salve name>. For example, you can type
APPLY MENDING and, as long as you have a vial of mending salve in your
inventory, this will apply mending salve to a part of your body that requires
it, if any.

Mending and restoration salves may be applied more specifically to the head,
arms, legs, or body, with the following syntax: APPLY <vial# or salve name> [to
<body part>]. For instance, a salve of mending would cure a broken arm if
applied to your arm, and a broken leg if applied to your legs. So if you have
more than one part of your body that requires mending salve and you wish to
heal them in a particular order, you can target the body part by typing APPLY
MENDING TO ARMS, for example.

Salves may be obtained from various shops all across Achaea, from anyone with the Remedies tradeskill (TRADEWHO REMEDIES), or directly from the helpful denizen Seasone (see HELP SEASONE).

Plants and Minerals
-------------------
Plants and minerals, in this context, are usually things that you eat. (Some
may be smoked. See the next section.) Eating plants and minerals generally
cures afflictions, or sets up defences for you. You may find these for sale in
marketplaces around Achaea, or you may contact any harvester or synthesiser. (TRADEWHO HARVESTING|SYNTHESIS])

Sileris berries and quicksilver droplets are exceptions. Instead of eating
them, you may apply them to your body like a salve. This provides a coating of
protection against bites from adventurers of the Serpent class. They are able
to flay the coating off you, however, so it does not make you invulnerable.

Smoking
-------
Some defences, such as an anti-weapon field (created by smoking the skullcap
plant), and some cures are effected by smoking plants. To do this, you simply
find yourself a nice pipe, PUT <whatever> IN PIPE, LIGHT PIPE (you must have a
source of fire, such as a tinderbox in your inventory), and then SMOKE PIPE. A
lit pipe will eventually go out if you don't smoke it now and then, but you can
simply relight it.

You will find a list of elixirs, salves, healing plants, minerals, and more in
HELP HEALINGLIST and HELP CURELIST.

(For Achaea's in-built healing system: HELP CURING SYSTEM)
