Source: https://www.achaea.com/game-help/?what=venom
Fetched: 2026-09-28 from the website copy of the in-game help. Body below is verbatim.

9.1 VENOM

Venom is a skill possessed only by the Serpents. It involves the production of
various venoms by glands. These glands are remnants of evolution and lay
dormant in most people. To those with the skill though, they can be used to
great effect. First, one must SECRETE a particular venom. There will be a short
pause while your glands produce the chosen toxin. Once the venom has been
secreted, it cannot be held in the bloodstream indefinitely. Each venom has a
risk factor incorporated into it. The more powerful the venom, the greater the
chance of it backfiring and affecting the producer. To get the venom out of the
bloodstream, one must either BITE another adventurer or PURGE the venom from
your body.

It should be pointed out that denizens will be immune to most venoms that do
things other than cause damage.

Various types of venoms:

Sumac
   This venom causes minor damage, much like the small serpent that wields it,
   but can still be dangerous.

Xentio
   Makes even the most coordinated warrior a clumsy fool.

Oleander
   This attacks the visual system, causing the victim's eyes to fail.

Eurypteria
   Affecting the decision making ability of the mortal victim, it causes even
   the most rational mortal to believe himself immortal, often causing him
   to run into battle recklessly.

Kalmia
   Contracts the victim's lungs, making the passage of all air impossible.

Digitalis
   Causes the most outgoing person to become a shy, fearful, child and unable
   to bear the presence of others.

Darkshade
   The sun itself becomes your enemy when bitten with this venom, searing the
   victim's flesh when exposed to sunlight.

Curare
   The victim of this venom will find himself unable to move, as his muscles
   fail to respond to his commands.

Epteth
   Attacks the muscle fibre of the upper limbs of the victim, causing them to
   shrivel up and become useless.

Prefarar
   All nerve endings in the victim are heightened, increasing his sensitivity
   to even the slightest sensation, often to the point of causing pain.

Monkshood
   This venom affects the face of its victim, causing horrible disfigurement.
   Those loyal to the victim are often so disgusted that they turn on him,
   possibly attacking him.

Euphorbia
   The digestive system of the victim is thrown into upheaval, causing
   spasmodic vomiting.

Colocasia
   Exposure to this venom leaves one robbed of their most vital senses:
   sight and hearing.

Oculus
   Forcibly heals those with shut eyes or blindness.

Camus
   By concentrating the venom Sumac, a more potent (and damaging) venom can
   be produced.

Vernalius
   This causes the victim's strength to leave its body, leaving a weak husk of
   a person in its place.

Epseth
   The sister venom of Epteth. It attacks the muscles of the leg, leaving them
   rotten and withered.

Larkspur
   Famous for its ability to induce great dizziness.

Slike
   This venom causes the victim to lose all desire for food or drink, possibly
   causing starvation if left unchecked.

Voyria
   Said to be the most deadly venom in all of mankind. Even the smallest dose
   can kill a large bull within a matter of seconds.

Delphinium
   By slowing heartrate and synapse activity, this venom eventually results in
   a peacefully sleeping victim. Often used by 'pacifists' to subdue their
   attackers.

Notechis
   This nasty venom induces haemophilia preventing its victim's blood from
   clotting.

Vardrax
   Mystical in nature, though not very well understood. This potent venom will
   instill an addiction in the victim that will not be sated.

Loki
   This venom is not very well understood. It has been called a potent mix of
   other venoms as well as a substance originally from the Chaos Plane itself.
   The effects are random and wide ranging, from sickness to death.

Aconite
   The brain of the affected individual ceases to operate correctly, causing
   them to exist in a state of complete stupor.

Selarnia
   The bane of Shapechangers, this venom disrupts the concentration of those
   with altered physical form, forcing them back into a mortal shape.

Gecko
   Adapted from the serpents of old, this venom will cause its victim's body to
   become coated in a very slick slime.

Scytherus
   Those infected with this venom find that their blood turns against them
   when any type of foreign substance is introduced into their system.

Nechamandra
   Those inflicted with this venom will find that their blood runs cold
   causing them to shiver violently.
